All right, here we go. We got something special for you guys
We're over here at Mason Motorsports still and we are taking a look at this gen 2
We got Neil here to tell us all about it
You guys are pretty stoked on this thing so far what so far. Yeah, it's been a lot of work
Yeah, I bet how many years is it taken to get to this point with this a little over two little over two years
There's a there was a solid
Two years and just design stuff in the computer. That's pretty cool
Once you take us around a little bit show us about it
So let's kind of talk about kind of the main idea behind the truck first. Okay
So one of the all-wheel drive and we wanted to maintain the same sort of front to rear balance that we currently run
But we wanted to keep that balance
Balanced throughout fuel load and burns. So so we really wanted to figure out
how to take all the fixed weight
And move it back to where we wanted
to get the rear tail weight instead of using fuel and
Then move the fuel up to the center of mass of the vehicle so that as the fuel load burns off
The balance of the truck percentage wise does not change the truck might change ride height slightly or get slightly lighter or heavier
But it doesn't disrupt the balance of it all makes sense because all this is going to stay the same pretty much unless you're
Minus a tire or something correct. So now with with
Making that balance not change as much not only is it more consistent when you drive it, but now that means you can also
use more fuel
Because it's not gonna upset the balance as much so that yeah
We can go farther
So our goal with this truck is to be able to do Sam Felipe
With no stops and the Baja 500 with one stop and that's that's a huge difference only stopping once or no stops
That's that's huge the easiest place to pass people's when they're stopped
That's when they make the least dust and these races are literally coming down to seconds nowadays
So if you say 30 seconds in a pit that could be the difference between winning or losing a race
Especially if you lost track position while you were in the pit true because now you're in the dust
You can then you might get a flat or who knows what yeah
So there's there's several things that we have to not only do you need more fuel to go farther
But we also have to figure out how to get the tires to go a little bit farther than what we've we've done
So we've done some geometry stuff with the rear to try and
Promote a little longer tire wear a little longer tire life. Yep make the wear more even across the tire
We've done things in the front to get even a little more traction and I'll use a little bit more
Forward bite out of the front end than our current gen one
Does to
Elibiate some more from the rear because currently we get a lot longer life out of the front tires in the rear
So trying to balance that
To get a longer fuel or a longer mileage before tires are needed to replace
So with all that being said we'll start looking at some individual parts. Yeah, so this is your front drivetrain cooler
This cools our our transmission which is
It's all designed and built-in house. It's a the transmission transfer case is all one unit
It the torque converter and the front diff are all lubricated with the same oils
Yeah, and they're all a dry sump system. So it all all that oil is
Maintained and kept in the same tank. So this cooler cools all of the drivetrain cools the transmission the front diff and
Not all the drivetrain cools the transmission front diff
Converter and transfer case
The portals don't require a cooler and the rear gear does not rear gears do not require a cooler. Okay
We move up to here, this is we've done the billet upper control arm for a long time
That's nothing new a very similar design to our gen one
The portal upright uses all the same internals is our current portal upright
It's just the housing is different for some geometry changes that we did in the front of the truck
Yeah, these things are massive too. So you guys like that's a hand. They're like these things are huge
Yeah, yeah massive and then but the newest thing to this front suspension is
The machine lower control arm. I've wanted to do one for a while and struggled to
Figure out how to cost effectively do one
Not that these are cost-effective
Yeah
But it's part of the problem is you need enough steering clearance out at the wheel
So you can't really make that center section with the uniball aluminum
It you can't make it large enough and still have enough clearance with your kind of your space constraints
Okay, so what we did on this is it not only is more efficient with material to make it this way
But you can now this center section is a 40 340
And then is sandwiched with dowels
To a front 70 75 and a rear 70 75 leg
So you can use the aluminum where you want the aluminum and you can have the steel strength where you want the steel
And you're also don't have to start with a piece this big. Yeah, it's it's broken up into sections
Those are three-piece lower arm basically correct correct
Nice thing about it now is it's easier for us to keep parts on the shelf for
Customers that are machine parts other than fabricated parts. Yeah, so if they damage something
It's much more likely that we can have it ready for them to go
The other nice thing about them is with the three-piece if you damage
This front section you can just replace that front section
That's actually pretty big because before that that would get damaged quite not quite often
But if you're gonna hit something it's probably gonna be that before you used to buy a whole new arm
Correct, so now you can just buy that one section or if or if you from taking uniballs in and out over time and wear and tear
If you damage that uniball cup instead of having to cut them out of the fabricated arms and have us
Well new ones in it and post machine them
You can just order that center section and we can send it to you and you bolt it right back together
That makes a lot of sense. Yeah, and they look cool. They do they do I mean, I haven't seen one like that before, right?
Yeah, it's definitely pretty cool
So this is
The fuel cell in the race truck all these carbon panels you see here, so this is a carbon Kevlar
Mostly Kevlar actually just carbon on the outsides and a Kevlar line box that the fuel bladder will go into
the tricky part about that was figuring out how to
Get a hundred and forty five gallons of fuel inside the cab and
Still make it come in and out
Yeah, so there's there's tubs
that are first
Put into the truck the lower parts of the fuel cell can that are put into the truck
Then the bladder is inserted into the truck and then the tops are all put into the truck and then the seat mounts
going over
the can which
Double is a hold down for the fuel cell. Yeah, that's quite a bit of
How long did it take you to come up with all that?
That's quite a bit of design you have to think of so when I first did it
I you know I drew the first tank and I'm like oh that should that should be good
Oh, I can barely get it out and then I did the calculations on it was like 86 gallons
I was like oh, I got to figure out how to fit a lot more
So the nice thing about this fuel is
One it's center mass of the vehicle
to
Most of it is very low in the chassis. Yeah
Three it's actually in the safest part of the chassis
Okay
When you have the rear mounted fuel cell not that it's a necessarily extremely dangerous
But if you get in an action if you crash one of these if you're hit by another vehicle
90% of the time there's damage to the front and to the rear and those are the parts of the chassis that are built to
Not be as sturdy the 30th part of the cab is designed to be around the drivers for safety reasons and it's the most centrally located and away from
Crash incidents trees rocks, so I know a lot of people have gone all the fuels
You know, it's it's near the drivers. You're sitting in field
If you rupture the fuel cell can in the back
And it catches fire
It's gonna catch you on fire and you're more likely to rupture it in the back and you are here in the center of the truck
That's true. Yeah, most collisions are the front or the back like you said
Yep with cars or or trees or anything on the horse. Yeah
So we feel like we've taken the fuel moved it to the strongest area of the entire chassis and the most centrally located and out of the way
I see you have cupholders too
Those will be for the battery and alternator switch. That is like a couple there's every picture
They put that more than half of the comments on Instagram or Facebook are mentioned the couple there's yeah
Yeah, nice couple there's so so the other thing you have to do with be able to get this fuel cell in and out is
You have to make sure that components don't get in the way
So that's why our steering column has to be able to unbolt from the chassis or you can't get the fuel cans out
Yeah, so there's there was lots of planning and lots of design and and lots of stuff that we had to do to make that work
That's that's the gnarliest fuel cell I've ever seen in an off-road vehicle. I'm just to say that right now
Yeah, I can't wait to see what a Harmon says when they make the bladder. Yeah
Good luck
So so then this will all be meshed and it'll be carbon also. Yep
And the way this truck's designed is this design to take all the air that's gone into the cab and
funnel it back to
Both the intake of the engine so we have fresh cool air coming to the engine and fresh cool air going to the coolers
So this truck is a little different than our current it's from the outside
It'll be all smooth. You won't really see any any of this stuff
So that'll be paneled this whole top actually Mike Tucker in our
Walk-around video was making the carbon mold for this top panel. Okay while we were over there
But that'll all be so that this is all paneled so you basically have a wind tunnel through the center of the truck
that
Comes in exits through that so anything that comes into the cab has to come to that back window
It's funneled to this rear coolers and then all the air will exhaust around and out the back of the truck around
this very tire
Very cool, and that's a massive cooler on there too. Yes
A new design we did with PWR
the top portion of it is
The radiator and then the bottom portion of it is the engine oil cooler
You got three fans on it and then we also did some stuff the way these panels in here work to keep all the
Header heat out and away from fresh air coolers
Coils this all has a return on it that mates cleanly to the engine
So the headers everything is sealed off to the outside of the car. Okay. Yeah, try to keep the heat out of it. Yep
How long does it take to get an engine out of this thing?
Not bad as long as you have like a fork lift or a fairly tall lift it comes right out through the top
Okay, it comes out the top. Yep
Yeah, our other ones dropped out of the bottom this one actually comes out through the top
Okay
Well, that's probably even easier because before you had to kind of lift the truck up to make enough clearance
Now you can just lift the engine up and out
And come back here some of the fixed-weight stuff we've moved back here jack tanks jack pumps
This one we have this is a transmission
The oil for the transmission and drivetrain dry sump. Yep. The opposite side is the engine oil
Backup jack
Batteries
Coolers
Components that before we're toward the front side of the truck
Yeah, so this is all come back and then the motor's actually another 26 inches further back than in our other mid-engine truck
I was gonna say it looks like it's actually farther from where you're sitting now too
Which actually is good for a driver because it might keep a little bit more
So this this used to be right behind your shoulder. Okay, so it's literally 26 inches further back in the chassis
Then then our current gen one all-wheel-drive truck
And so that also helps move more fixed-weight to the rear
Yeah, so this is gonna have the jacks up here as well. Correct
Yeah, so the jack
Hydraulic jack on part of it mounts there mounts here. Oh, yeah, there we go
Lots of people asking questions about how all this works and driveshafts and is it independent
So all I'll say right now is no it's not independent
It is a more of a live axle suspension setup
And that's all we'll go with perfect it uses the same trailing arm as the current gen one truck
All right current trailing arm gen one truck. Well, we might be something a little special later
And you can adjust camber and toe. Oh
Yep. All right
There you go. You guys heard it from the man himself
Not independent not independent not independent
But something special maybe
Trying to think if there's any
Anything else? I mean that this pedal looks cool. That's same pedal that we've always used
That's one of the very few interchangeable parts. How often do you have to change the fluid the shock?
Well, yeah SDG wants you to do it every every race like every, you know
Does it do you know what the spring rate is? No, it is it depends on the driver. Yeah
You know the the most finicky driver I've ever had when it came to gas pedals was for sure Andy McMillan
Yep, every time he ever bought a new driving shoe
He would insist that we made a new
Pedal portion or foot portion of the pedal to fit it perfectly
I always had to have a quarter inch gap all the way around the shoe and the same shape as the shoe
Hey, whatever works, right?
I mean Andy's famous for doing the you know the blipping rattle tool. I said it definitely gets used a lot
Yep, is everything up here pretty much the same
Kind of a different steering setup on this
We're doing it's a swing set. It's not a rack
But it also doesn't have
Call it your normal sort of box with a sector shaft
So so we're using kind of a linear steering that we're doing with double hydraulic rams that power the swingers
So it's almost like if you took a full hydraulic steering
But then you put a mechanical link in between so that you don't get drift
It's something new that we're we're playing with that. I think it's gonna have a lot of advantages
Awesome, it'll do some really cool stuff with it. Well, that'll be cool to see once it's once it's on there. Yeah
Well, very cool. I think that covers the the vehicle if someone let's ask if someone wants to buy one of these right now
What kind of weight is it? So one of these right now the we are only gonna build the first two
until they have
Run for a year, okay, and then we'll then we'll begin to deliver or make build other ones, okay
You want to make sure they're proven get get out there get some time on them
And I want to finish them before we see how much they're really gonna cost
Yeah, cuz you don't know if you're not done yet, right? Correct
We have ballpark ideas and estimates and prices that we've committed to
But you lose a lot of money on the first couple. Yeah, I'm sure and we know it's no secret
Who's this first one is yeah, it's already been said before this is prices truck
So yeah cool to see so maybe later this this year. We'll see this thing in the dirt. Yeah
Awesome. Well, I'll see you in the dirt sooner than later. I want to drive it real bad. Yeah, I'm sure you do
This thing is gonna be pretty cool. It'll be cool to see when it's finished
Yeah, thank you guys for giving us an awesome shop tour today a cool walk around of the new gen 2 anything else
You want to talk about on it or is that about it? I think it's about it for now. All right
Well, there you got any questions. No, I think that's it
We don't we got to keep people guessing on some of this stuff
So we can't tell you all the secrets yet
We have to have something to show you later if we showed you everything right now
You're not gonna come back and check it out later. Yeah, it's all about views. It's all about you. Yeah, right?
We all care about that so much
All right, well cool that that's the new the new gen 2 being built by Mason Motorsports for Bryce Menzies
Thanks for tuning in guys. Hopefully you like the tour if you didn't check out the shop tour
Go check out the shop tour tour of this whole this whole place. We'll see you on the next one