6 minutes and 51 seconds. That's how
long it took a gas car with over 1,000
horsepower to go around the Nurburg
Ring. But what if it had nearly 3,000
horsepower? Yet, an electric car has
done exactly that, but it took nearly 7
minutes. Now, immediately this made me
curious. Why would a car with nearly
three times the power have a slower lap
time? And there's no shade either.
Anything under 7 minutes is incredibly
respectable, but I'm still curious as to
the why behind all of this. To figure it
out, we're going to focus on two main
questions. First, can both cars run an
entire lap at full power? In other
words, do they have enough energy stored
on board? And second, can you actually
use 3,00 horsepower? Can any tires out
there actually put down this much power?
And if so, what speed is required to do
so? So, our first question, do we have
enough energy stored on board for a full
lap at full power? So, let's first
compare our powertrains. Of course, with
the ZR1, we've got our V8 engine
producing 1,64 horsepower or about 873
kW. With the U9X, we have four electric
motors for a combined 2,220
kW or about 2,977
horsepower. Now, the Corvette has an
18.5galon
fuel tank and our U9X has an 80 kWh
battery pack. So, we need to be able to
compare these directly. So, we can
convert gallons of gasoline into
kilowatt hours. 1 gall of gasoline is
roughly equivalent to 33.7 kwatt hours.
So, 18.5 * 33.7 that gives us total
energy stored on board of 623
kwatt hours. Now, that sounds amazing.
But of course, combustion engines are
not very efficient. So, let's assume our
combustion engine has a 25% efficiency.
Of course, we're talking about operating
at wide open throttle. And even if this
number is a little high or a little low,
it won't change our conclusion. So,
don't worry too much about the
efficiency number. But multiplying those
together, we get a useful energy on the
Corvette of about 155 kwatt hours
versus, of course, electric motors are
far more efficient. So, we're going to
assume an efficiency of 92.5% here going
from the battery getting to the wheels.
And so, we are going to have a useful
energy of about 74 kwatt hours. Now, you
can already see the Corvette does have
more energy, but does it actually
matter? So, now that we know how much
useful energy each car has with that
amount of energy, how long could the car
deliver full power? Now, this is a very
simple thing to calculate. We're simply
going to take energy and divide it by
power. And so, that will give us time.
So 155 kwatt hours divided by 873 kW.
We'll multiply that by 60 minutes in an
hour to convert it to minutes. And that
gives us a time of 10.7 minutes. So the
Corvette with this efficiency could run
flat out for 10.7 minutes. Now, of
course, it did the lap in less than 7
minutes, which means it is never power
limited for the entirety of that lap.
Now, you might be thinking, well, of
course, it's not going to be flat out
for the entire lap. And you're
absolutely right. So, I actually spoke
with the Corvette team and asked them
about how much time do these vehicles
actually spend at wide openen throttle
and they said for the Z06 it was 57% of
the entire lap time going around the
Nurburgane. For the ZR1 it was 40% and
for the ZR1X it was 44%. So, what about
the U9X? So, for the U9X 74 kW hours
divided by 2220 multiplied by 60 and
that gives us a total time of just 2
minutes. 2 minutes that it can supply
full power. Now, this may or may not be
a problem. 2 minutes divided by 7. Well,
that gives us 28.6%
of the lap that could actually deliver
that much power. But that means zero
power for the rest of the lap. And
considering the percentage which the ZR1
is spending at wide openen throttle, I
think this may actually be a concern.
Another way of thinking about this is
take that 2 over7 and multiply it by our
power. That gives us 634
kW. That's the average power that this
vehicle can deliver throughout that
entire lap. So at points it could be
higher, at points it could be lower. But
note that this average power is actually
less than the average power that the
Corvette could deliver because of course
it is not energy limited. And actually
when you look at the U9X going down the
main straight, they lift once they hit
350 km/h. So, they may be doing a little
bit of energy saving there, and they may
perhaps be doing a little bit of energy
saving elsewhere on the track. A little
bit of lifting coast. All right, so
we've learned so far that it probably
doesn't have enough energy to go all out
on a full lap. But there's another big
question, which is, can the tires even
put down that much power? Did someone
say tires?
>> Who's that? Oh, hey there. This portion
of the video is sponsored by
Continental, who by the way never tells
me I have a problem, but instead happily
feeds my addiction. Today, we're talking
about the True Contact Tour 54, a
longlasting allseason touring tire for
passenger cars and crossovers. Because
the reality is, despite my personal
preference for performance tires, most
people want a tire that's comfortable
and really, really longasting. And
that's exactly where this sits as it is
Continental's longest lasting tire they
sell today with up to an 80,000mi
warranty. It's got plenty of tread
depth, a compound that helps reduce
wear, and also focuses on excellent wet
grip with deep main grooves to handle
the rain, and cypes to help handle the
snow. And there are helpful indicators
that wear away, letting you know when
your tire is no longer optimal for wet
or snow. And if the D for dry
disappears, it's time to replace the
tire. And whether your car is gas or
electric, it's built to handle the
loads, while the compound optimizes both
range and longevity. So, thanks,
Continental. All right, back to the
whiteboard. Sorry, I um just blacked out
for a moment. Um where where were we?
Oh, right. Tires. So, the real question
is at what speed can you put down all of
the car's power? Right. cuz obviously
with nearly 3,000 horsepower, if you put
it down immediately, you're just going
to do a giant burnout. But eventually,
you will reach a speed where you are no
longer traction limited. So, what speed
is that? Now, this is actually very easy
to calculate with one simple equation.
Power equals force time velocity.
Velocity, that's what we're trying to
figure out. At what speed can we apply
that full power? So, because we're going
with maximum power, we can set that
equal to 2220. And we now need to know
what is the maximum force these tires
can apply. Where are they at the limit
of friction? And so that is of course
equal to the frictional coefficient 1.2
multiplied by the normal force. So the
mass of the vehicle 280 kg multiplied by
gravity. So we plug in all these
numbers. All we're left with is
velocity. And that tells us a speed of
76 m/s or about 274 km/h or about 170
mph. So anything below that, anything
below 170 mph, it won't be able to put
the full power down. And then above
that, it will be able to. All right. But
170 mph, what does that even mean? We
need some context, right? Well, the
fastest car to ever go around the ring,
a race car, by the way, was the Porsche
919 Hybrid Evo, which did it in a
blistering 5 minutes 19.55
seconds. This was at an average speed of
234 kmh or about 145 mph. So, the
fastest car to ever do it was on average
well under the speed at which the U9X
can put down full power. What does that
mean? Well, the U9X will rarely be
putting down full power. Okay, but I
have a confession. This is all
completely wrong. Nonsense. Do you know
why? Well, because we're assuming all of
the power goes wherever it's needed. So
in reality we need to take into
consideration that each wheel has one
motor. So for the front axle you have
1100 kW and for the rear axle you have
1100 kW and you can't send more than
that to either axle. So why is this a
problem? Well once you start
accelerating that weight that load
transfer is going to go to that rear
tire. Now if you have more weight on
that rear axle it means it has more
available grip and so it can put down
more power. On the flip side, if you
have less weight on that front axle, it
means it has less grip and it can put
down less power. So, the speed at which
the rear tire can finally put down the
full amount of power it has, 1110 kW, is
going to be less than this number we
calculated earlier. And because the load
is being taken away from the front and
transferred to that rear axle, the front
is going to have a much higher speed
that it can put down that full 1110 kW
than we calculated previously. So
really, we need to calculate the speed
at which each axle can finally put down
full power. And when both axles can
finally put down full power, we know the
point at which we're no longer traction
limited. All right. Well, we're going to
need a few more variables to figure this
out. All right, deep breaths, everyone.
It's about to get a little bit gnarly.
You're going to have to turn off Tik Tok
brain. You're actually going to have to
focus. But I believe in you. All right?
Even if your parents never told you they
did, I'm telling you right now, I
believe in you. You can focus. You got
this. The conclusion is really cool. So,
here we go. What are we trying to figure
out? We're trying to figure out the
I don't know. We're trying to figure out
the speed where we can apply full power
on the rear axle. So, we've already
learned this equation, right? Power
equals force times velocity. We've
already learned that force is equal to
our frictional coefficient multiplied by
our normal force. What's changed is now
we have to take into consideration load
transfer. So the normal force assuming
this vehicle has a 50/50 weight
distribution is going to be half the
load of the vehicle of course plus
whatever additional load we get to that
axle from the acceleration. So mass time
acceleration time the height of our
center of gravity divided by our
wheelbase. So as you can see this
equation here as acceleration goes up
the amount the of normal force that you
have on your rear axle also goes up
which means the speed at which you can
apply full power goes down. So the
question then becomes how much are we
accelerating? Now we can figure out
acceleration by looking at all of the
forces acting on our car. So of course
we have the force of traction. These
tires are trying to accelerate the
vehicle but some of that force has to go
into aerodynamic losses. Some of that
force has to go into rolling resistance
losses. But where do we want it to go?
We want it to go into linear
acceleration. So the thing accelerates
as quickly as possible. So we can say FT
equals FA plus F arrow plus FRR. All
right. Well, we can rearrange that and
say the force of linear acceleration is
equal to the traction force minus
aerodynamic drag minus rolling
resistance. Of course, we can fill in
what these equations are. No problem.
And then we can solve these equations
for acceleration. So mass times
acceleration, that's the acceleration
we're solving for. And that gives us
this long gnarly equation here. So we
take this equation for acceleration. We
plug it into our normal force equation
right there. We plug that normal force
equation into our tire force on the rear
right here. We plug in that force at the
rear into our power equation. And
suddenly the only variable we're left
with is velocity. So we simply solve for
velocity. Wow, just like that. So easy.
Cool. And what do we get? 56 m/s or
about 202 km/h or about 126 mph. That is
the speed at which the rear axle can
apply full power. And look, just like I
told you and predicted, it is less than
the number we calculated earlier because
you have more load on that rear axle. So
you can apply the full power sooner.
Okay. So now we know the speed at which
the rear tops out and now becomes power
limited instead of traction limited. And
while it is actually high, there are a
good number of times that the car is
driving over 200 km/h. So it is in fact
getting a decent bit of use on the lap.
But what about the front axle? All
right, so for the front axle, a little
bit trickier, but we got this. There's
only two changes we need to make versus
our previous math in order to figure
this out. The first one being our normal
force, right? So, previously the normal
force on the rear tire was half the
weight of the vehicle plus some amount
from acceleration. Now, it's going to be
half the weight of the vehicle minus
that same amount from acceleration.
Right? So, we're just putting a minus
there instead of a plus there. Which
means as our acceleration goes up, the
normal force on that front tire goes
down. So, the speed at which you can
apply full power goes up. All right. The
second thing we need to figure out is
this force of traction. So, previously
we were traction limited, but now we're
going to be at a speed where the rear is
power limited. So, we're no longer
traction limited. So, this FT is no
longer going to be equal to mu mg, our
traction limit. Instead, it's going to
be reliant on our total power. So, we're
going to be at the point where we can
finally put down full power. So, this FT
is going to be our total amount of power
divided by our velocity. So in our
acceleration equation, instead of mu mg,
we're putting in our total power divided
by a velocity. Now, of course, that
means we're adding in another v, which
makes solving for v more complicated,
but that's what calculators are for. So
you put a into n, you put n into f, you
put f into p, you solve for b, boom,
just like that. Easy peasy. What do you
get? The front velocity at which you can
finally put down full power. 99 m/s or
about 357
km/h or about 222
mph. So below that speed, this car
cannot put down its full power. Now, as
we already mentioned, the driver was
lifting at 350 kmh. So it is possible
that they never during the entirety of
the lap had the ability to put down the
full 3,000 horsepower. Now, that said,
if you take into consideration other
variables like adding in the weight of
the driver and then having some
efficiency loss from your gears, that
could bring this number down to about
330 km/h where you start to be able to
use that full power. And if you had
meaningful downforce, that number would
drop even further. So, it may be using
its full power very briefly on the main
straight, but that's about it. So, what
have we learned? Well, there comes a
point where power becomes meaningless.
And for many scenarios, this car reaches
that point. It's still difficult to get
a sub 7minute lap time. But the reason
why a 3,000 horsepower vehicle is slower
than a 1,000 horsepower vehicle is
because there's never really a time that
it can actually use that 3,000
horsepower. It's really all about grip,
which is a mixture of aerodynamics and
tires. And so what a delightful piece of
information to close out on as the
Porsche 911 GT3 RS with only 386 kW or
about 520 horsepower, less than half
that of the Corvette ZR1, is actually
quicker than the ZR1 with a 649.3 lap
time. Why? Well, it has more downforce
and it weighs less, which means it has
more grip, which means it can go around
corners faster. And that's what's
important on the Nurburg Green. And
that's not throwing shade at the ZR1,
especially when you consider that it's a
lowerc cost vehicle and it's more
obtainable than a GT3 RS. But the lesson
here remains. For the Ring, grip is
king. If you have any questions or
comments, feel free to leave them below.
Thanks for watching.